---
title: Bluetooth Tag Configuration API - Introduction 
category: 682f3ce5439e430039b25775
---

Bluetooth Tag Configuration API exposes features required for configuration of Bluetooth tag telematics devices. 
Process of Bluetooth tag devices configuration requires clients of this API also physical access to the device via Bluetooth.

> ➡️ [OpenAPI Specification for the Bluetooth Tag Configuration API domain](https://developers.trackunit.com/openapi/682f3ce5439e430039b25773)
> Get the OpenAPI Specification (formerly Swagger), which is a standardized format that describes the functionalities, endpoints, parameters, and data models of this API in a JSON file [here](https://developers.trackunit.com/openapi/682f3ce5439e430039b25773).

### KIN Challenge

The KIN Challenge is a security feature preventing unauthorized configuration of KIN T200 (KIN2) devices. 
The challenge request is a randomized value generated by the KIN2 device and sent by the API client to Iris to verify that the client can configure particular device. 
The challenge response can be written by the client to the KIN2 device where it is evaluated. 
It is random which prevents replay attacks. 
Reading the challenge request and writing the challenge response needs to be done using the KIN2 device's Bluetooth connection.

### Utilization Profiles

Utilization profiles are a functional feature which allows configuration of how low-level accelerometer data will be interpreted 
on KIN T200 (KIN2) devices as the connected asset's utilization data, including: movement, operation, overload operation and extreme events. 
The API allows searching utilization profiles based on the filter criteria (asset metadata), getting the profile by its identifier 
and acknowledging the profile being sent (desired) and accepted (reported) by the KIN2 device.
Applying the utilization profiles and reading the status of that operation needs to be done using the KIN2 device's BLE services.

## Constraints

The Bluetooth Tag Configuration API is only available for the following bluetooth tag devices: KIN T200 (KIN2).
